 Dr.
Jaishankar, a lot of your commentary was focused on democracy and furthering democracy and different forms of democracy.
There are occasional comments that we see on the undermining of democracy in India, most recently in the context of the BBC, and just yesterday at the Munich Security Conference, George Soros spoke on many issues, but specifically on open and closed societies and called on institutional reform in India.
How do you as Foreign Minister of India explain this when you're dealing with your Quad Ministers in particular as well as others? Well look, I actually made two points.
One, how the world is changing.
It is rebalancing.
It is less Euro-Atlantic.
I don't think everybody gets that.
I think old habits die hard.
I mean very candidly, there are still people in the world who believe that their definition, their preferences, their views must override everything else.
Since you mentioned this specific example, I don't know how familiar people are with what was said at the Munich conference.
Essentially Mr.
Soros said India is a democratic country, but he doesn't think the Prime Minister of India is a democrat.
And by the way, a few years ago, in the same conference I was there at that time, he actually accused us of planning to strip millions of Muslims of their citizenship, which of course didn't happen.
It was a ridiculous suggestion.
But you have to understand what this actually means.
I could take a view that the individual in question, Mr.
Soros, is an old, rich, opinionated person sitting in New York who still thinks that his views should determine how the entire world works.
Now, if I could only stop at old, rich, and opinionated, I would put it away.
But he is old, rich, opinionated, and dangerous.
Because what happens is when such people and such views and such organizations, they actually invest in shaping narratives.
I spoke about globalization.
Now, what globalization does is it actually creates a lot of the seamlessness of globalization, which creates all the opportunities, also allows narratives to be shaped, money to come in, foundations to go about their agenda.
Now, in this particular case, it is very clear that he has very strong political preferences.
He actually thinks that it doesn't matter that this is a country of 1.4 billion people, we are almost there, whose voters decide how the country should run.
He actually thinks, well, if, you know, and again, I cite him as an extreme example.
But there are other manifestations of this in different countries, where people like him think an election is good if the person we want to see wins.
If the election throws up a different outcome, then we actually will say it is a flawed democracy.
And, you know, this, and the beauty is all this is done under the pretense of advocacy of open society, of transparency, etc.
So, our generation, we have grown up with concepts like regime change, which influence operations.
Now, you can call it what you will.
I mean, to me, this really looks the same with a gloss of some kind of do-goodism on it.
So, for me, it's actually necessary today that you have, we have today, a serious conversation on democracy.
You know, I, when I look at my own democracy, I mean, I have today a voter turnout, which is unprecedented, electoral outcomes which are decisive, electoral processes which are not questioned.
We are not one of those countries where after the election somebody goes to arbitrate in court.
We don't have any hanging chads either.
And, you know, where you actually say, I will sit in judgment over the verdict of voters.
Now, my sense of democracy is the voters supposed to decide.
And, it worries us, it worries us, because look, we are a country which went through colonialism.
We know the dangers of what happens when there is outside interference in whatever guise in your politics.
If you do this kind of scaremongering, like millions of people will be deprived of citizenship, it actually does real damage to a societal fabric.
Because somebody out there believes you, and somebody, and you don't leave it to accident, by the way, you back it up with an operation.
So, you create that kind of fear psychosis, and then you use that to validate your original judgment.
So, I do think today between, you know, who's democracy, who's globalization, why, you know, the transparency of how global processes work.
These are real issues which need to be debated.